I wouldn’t automatically label myself as being a feminist - it’s not that the term is a bad thing, I just want the rights of everyone, regardless of gender, race or belief, to be upheld, as long as it’s not at the expense of others. Everybody deserves respect. We should all be treated well and with dignity. I know this is probably a naive ideal, but whatever. I think this is how it should be.  

That said, there have been many instances where either I myself, people I know, or those that I’ve read or heard about on social media, TV etc have been treated badly (in the last year, even) because they/we are women. It’s 2016. This shouldn’t still be happening. However, it seems that the more we highlight this issue, the more the cockroaches come out of the woodwork to spout their ugly hatred. Not to say that we should stop doing so; not at all! The more uncomfortable we make people on this issue, the more room there will be for change.

I won’t going to go into any specifics or anything. Rather, I just thought I would share with you this poem I found on YouTube last year. It’s by Gillette and when I posted this originally on Twitter, I must admit it was met with some skepticism - the strongest comment was that coming from a product conglomerate, it was more than likely a corporate marketing tactic to boost sales. You know what I say to that? I don’t care. If someone is taking the time to tell women they’re worth something and that they have a voice and a special gift to offer the world, I for one am not going to criticise it. 

As a woman who grew up in a particularly matriarchal family, I am very much in tune with the rights of my gender and how they often are squashed by both men and even other women. The idea that a woman would hold another back because of gender stereotypes seems absurd to me. Even so, I have had that happen personally. We have had to learn that we can achieve great things; that we have a place in the world that is as important as our male counterparts. It’s like it has been subconsciously instilled into us.

However, both my Mother and Grandmother always taught me that I am worthwhile and special. I know, I know - most parents do, but this has been particularly meaningful because of our history. Having gone through some huge trials in their lives, my Mum, Nan and Aunt have all been pillars in our family, and have shown myself and my cousins that we can hold our heads high and conquer anything that comes our way. We’re made of strong stuff. 

Anyway, below is the poem that I’m talking about. Would be great to know who originally wrote the words. If anyone can tell me, I’d be very grateful (and will add proper credits):

>_“Who am I?”_, you ask.
How long do you have?

An answer that’s just one word? 
How limiting! How absurd!

I won’t let anyone put a label on me,
based just on what they see.

_“The pretty one,”_ _“the smart one.”_
Shame on you. Not fair to do.

The second you look at me
and try to deduce, I promise

That’s when I let my ‘and’s’ rise,
let my ‘and’s’ loose. 

_“What’s an ‘and’?”_, you ask.
What do I mean?

The things that make me whole;
the things that make me ‘me’.

The things I do. 
The things I feel with my heart and my voice.

The things I need to breathe - 
my ‘and’s’, my choice.

I am a scientist and an athlete
and a girly girl.

A poet, a boxer; 
ready to take on the world.

A lover of music
and numbers.

A thinker 
and a doer.

A reader, a believer,
a teacher, a mover.

You know who you are.
Don’t let a label limit. 

This is your life:
live it.


